1. Why do we use version control tools such as Git?

Version control tools helps developers move faster and allows software teams to preserve efficiency and agility as the team scales to include more developers.
VCS are sometimes known as SCM (Source Code Management) tools or RCS (Revision Control System). One of the most popular VCS tools in use today is called Git.
Git manages the source code of a program and This is a useful tool for maintaining, expanding and versioning a project.

2.What is the repository? And a good repository includes which important files? 

The repository is like a data structure used by VCS to store metadata for a set of files and directories. 
It contains the collection of the files as well as the history of changes made to those files. References, Releases, Tags, Commits, Branches, etc.
Repository in Git is considered as your project folder. A repository has all the project-related data. Distinct projects have distinct repositories.
Every repository must include these 3 files: README.md, .gitignore, LICENSE.

3.What does a valid README.md contain?

The README.md file must contain the first & second parts, the third part is optional.
1.A brief description of the project. What is the project going to do and what's made for?
2.How can someone use this project? Installation, Configuration, Removal, Executing and etc.
3.If someone desire to contribute to this project, How they can do it.

4.What does the git clone command do?

git clone is primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo in a new directory, at another location. 
The original repository can be located on the local filesystem or on remote machine-accessible supported protocols. 
The git clone command copies an existing Git repository to our system.

5.which command should be run to update the local repository with the remote repository?

#git pull

6.What is the difference between reset, revert, checkout commands?

git revert - This command creates a new commit that undoes the changes from a previous commit. This command adds new history to the project (it doesn't modify existing history).

git checkout - This command checks-out content from the repository and puts it in your working tree. It can also have other effects, depending on how the command was invoked. 
For instance, it can also change which branch you are currently working on. This command doesn't make any changes to the history.

git reset - This command is a little more complicated. It actually does a couple of different things depending on how it is invoked. 
It modifies the index (the so-called "staging area"). Or on the commit-level, resetting is a way to move the tip of a branch to a different commit.
This command may alter existing history (by changing the commit that a branch references). 

7.What is the difference between merge & rebase commands?
Git rebase and merge both integrate changes from one branch into another. Git rebase moves a feature branch into a master. 
Git merge adds a new commit, preserving the history. 
We can use these commands to produce the changes from remote/tracking ref to the working tree But using which commands depends on the situation.

8.Which command is used for viewing the commits history?

#git log

9.If we want to view the changes of a file, which command do we use?

#git diff

10.What is the usage of the Tag? How can we build a tag?

Tagging is generally used to capture a point in history that is used for a marked version release (i.e. v1. 0.1). 
A tag is like a branch that doesn't change. Unlike branches, tags, after being created, have no further history of commits.
#git tag v1.0.1 ----> the version of the project is 1.0.1 and based on the version, We can have a release.

11.What is the process of involving in a project that manages via Git?

Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.
git clone <project address from github>
git diff
git show HEAD
git branch
git branch test
git checkout test ---> Make the fix
git merge test
git commit
git tag v1.0
git push

12.What is the usage of the branches? and how can we merge them?
A branch in Git is a way to keep developing and coding a new feature or modification to the software and still not affecting the main part of the project. 
We can also say that branches create another line of development in the project.
The default branch name in Git is master. As you start making commits, you’re given a master branch that points to the last commit you made. 
Every time you commit, the master branch pointer moves forward automatically.
git merge <branch>

